OSDOCS-6269: Updates intro. listing all resources and  listing nbdb/sbdb with OVN-K  i/c (#62156)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-ovn-kubernetes-list-resources.adoc

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS      AGE
pod/ovnkube-control-plane-55d6cb89fb-69cjj   2/2     Running   0             47m
pod/ovnkube-control-plane-55d6cb89fb-7dmcd   2/2     Running   2 (37m ago)   47m
pod/ovnkube-control-plane-55d6cb89fb-zkbqs   2/2     Running   0             47m

> pod/ovnkube-node-24tn8                       10/10   Running   0             34m

Reviewer: ovnkube-node pods has 8 containers, here show 10. So this is not the latest version.

Author: Not sure what to do with the 9. Should I add a `NOTE` admonition to point out that Azure will have 9?

Author: I added a note in the docs.

pod/ovnkube-node-6gjxz                       10/10   Running   0             37m
pod/ovnkube-node-d87jx                       10/10   Running   2 (37m ago)   46m
pod/ovnkube-node-kvjbp                       10/10   Running   2 (37m ago)   45m
pod/ovnkube-node-sgmzk                       10/10   Running   0             34m
pod/ovnkube-node-smp26                       10/10   Running   2 (37m ago)   46m

NAME                                   TYPE        CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                      AGE

> service/ovn-kubernetes-control-plane   ClusterIP   None         <none>        9106/TCP                     47m

Author: Should 9106 be 9108? I just ran this in a cluster and I still got 9106. @tssurya

> service/ovn-kubernetes-control-plane   ClusterIP   None         <none>        9106/TCP                     47m

Reviewer 2: please see the PR I linked for more information

daemonset.apps/ovnkube-node   6         6         6       6            6           beta.kubernetes.io/os=linux   47m

NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/ovnkube-control-plane   3/3     3            3           47m

NAME                                               DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/ovnkube-control-plane-55d6cb89fb   3         3         3       47m

NAME                                     ENDPOINTS                                                AGE
endpoints/ovn-kubernetes-control-plane   10.0.0.3:9106,10.0.0.4:9106,10.0.0.5:9106                47m
endpoints/ovn-kubernetes-node            10.0.0.3:9105,10.0.0.4:9105,10.0.0.5:9105 + 15 more...   47m

NAME                                 DATA   AGE
configmap/control-plane-status       1      46m
configmap/kube-root-ca.crt           1      47m
configmap/openshift-service-ca.crt   1      47m
configmap/ovn-ca                     1      47m
configmap/ovnkube-config             1      47m
configmap/signer-ca                  1      47m
----
+

> There are three `ovnkube-masters` that run on the control plane nodes, and one daemon set used to deploy the `ovnkube-control-plane` and `ovnkube-node` pods.

Reviewer 2: its not ovnkube-masters anymore right? and why only one daemon-set? is it because ovnkube-control-plane is a deployment? if so please mention that.

Reviewer 2: is this resolved?

Author: `There are three `ovnkube-cluster-manager` that run on the control plane nodes, and one daemon set used to deploy the `ovnkube-control-plane` and `ovnkube-node` pods.
There is one ovnkube-node pod for each node in the cluster.
The `ovnkube-config` `ConfigMap` has the {product-title} OVN-Kubernetes configurations.`

Author: I think that fixes it, right?

There is one ovnkube-node pod for each node in the cluster. In this example, there are six, and since there is one ovnkube-node per node in the cluster, there are six nodes in the cluster.
The `ovnkube-config` `ConfigMap` has the {product-title} OVN-Kubernetes configurations started by online leader and `ovnkube-node`.

> The `ovnkube-config` `ConfigMap` has the information of the current online leader pod.

Reviewer 2: its missing if its ovnkube-control-plane leader ? i guess? would be good to check on a live cluster.

. List all the containers in the `ovnkube-master` pods by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods ovnkube-control-plane-55d6cb89fb-69cjj -o jsonpath='{.spec.containers[*].name}' -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes
----
.Expected output
+
[source,terminal]
----

> ovn-controller ovn-acl-logging kube-rbac-proxy kube-rbac-proxy-ovn-metrics ovnkube-node

Reviewer: pod for control-plane only have two containers now:
`kube-rbac-proxy ovnkube-cluster-manager`

> ovn-controller ovn-acl-logging kube-rbac-proxy kube-rbac-proxy-ovn-metrics ovnkube-node

Reviewer: the containers is not right,  line 90-97 are correct..
So line 80--88 can be removed.

Author: I tried to fix this to show the contents of the `ovnkube-control-plane` and `ovnkube-node`.

daemonset.apps/ovnkube-node   6         6         6       6            6           beta.kubernetes.io/os=linux   114m

NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/ovnkube-control-plane   3/3     3            3           114m

NAME                                               DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/ovnkube-control-plane-65c6f55656   3         3         3       114m

NAME                                     ENDPOINTS                                               AGE
endpoints/ovn-kubernetes-control-plane   10.0.0.3:9108,10.0.0.4:9108,10.0.0.5:9108               114m
endpoints/ovn-kubernetes-node            10.0.0.3:9105,10.0.0.4:9105,10.0.0.5:9105 + 9 more...   114m

NAME                                 DATA   AGE
configmap/control-plane-status       1      113m
configmap/kube-root-ca.crt           1      114m
configmap/openshift-service-ca.crt   1      114m
configmap/ovn-ca                     1      114m
configmap/ovnkube-config             1      114m
configmap/signer-ca                  1      114m

----
+
There is one `ovnkube-node` pod for each node in the cluster.

> The `ovnkube-config` `ConfigMap` has the {product-title} OVN-Kubernetes configurations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `ovnkube-config` config map has the {product-title} OVN-Kubernetes configurations.
```

Author: I'm going to check to make sure we don't want to be refering to the API object here, but I _think_ you are correct. Good catch.

Reviewer 3: if you do want to refer to the API object, that works too as long as you put "object" after `ConfigMap` :)

+

. List all of the containers in the `ovnkube-node` pods by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods ovnkube-node-bcvts -o jsonpath='{.spec.containers[*].name}' -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes
----
.Expected output
+
[source,terminal]
----
ovn-controller ovn-acl-logging kube-rbac-proxy-node kube-rbac-proxy-ovn-metrics northd nbdb sbdb ovnkube-controller
----

> The `ovnkube-node` pod is made up of several containers. It is responsible for hosting the northbound database (`nbdb` container), the southbound database (`sbdb` container), the north daemon (`northd` container), `ovn-controller` and the `ovnkube-controller`container. The `ovnkube-controller` container watches for API objects like pods, egressIPs, namespaces, services, endpoints, egress firewall, network policy etc. It is also responsible for allocating pod IP from the available subnet pool for that node.

Reviewer 3: ISG says no "etc." Since this list has "objects like" I think you can just end it like this:
```suggestion
The `ovnkube-node` pod is made up of several containers. It is responsible for hosting the northbound database (`nbdb` container), the southbound database (`sbdb` container), the north daemon (`northd` container), `ovn-controller` and the `ovnkube-controller`container. The `ovnkube-controller` container watches for API objects like pods, egressIPs, namespaces, services, endpoints, egress firewall, and network policies. It is also responsible for allocating pod IP from the available subnet pool for that node.
```
also `egressIPs` is existing terminology but maybe "egress IPs" or "egress IP addresses"?

. List all the containers in the `ovnkube-control-plane` pods by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods ovnkube-control-plane-65c6f55656-6d55h -o jsonpath='{.spec.containers[*].name}' -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes
----
.Expected output
+
[source,terminal]
----
kube-rbac-proxy ovnkube-cluster-manager
----
+

> The `ovnkube-control-plane` pod has a container (`ovnkube-cluster-manager`) that resides on each {product-title} node. The `ovnkube-cluster-manager` container allocates pod subnet and join subnet IP to each node in the cluster. The `kube-rbac-proxy` container monitors metrics for the `ovnkube-cluster-manager` container.

Reviewer 3: Not sure if "join subnet" is a typo or just networking jargon I don't know :)

Reviewer 4: join subnet probably means default for e.g 169.254.169.0/29 and user configured say 100.64.0.0/16 would be joined and routable among each other. cc @tssurya to confirm

Author: Discussed over slack and updated.

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Warning: apps.openshift.io/v1 DeploymentConfig is deprecated in v4.14+, unavailable in v4.10000+
NAME                                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS       AGE
pod/ovnkube-control-plane-65c6f55656-6d55h   2/2     Running   0              114m
pod/ovnkube-control-plane-65c6f55656-fd7vw   2/2     Running   2 (104m ago)   114m
pod/ovnkube-control-plane-65c6f55656-vtqtm   2/2     Running   0              114m
pod/ovnkube-node-bcvts                       8/8     Running   0              113m
pod/ovnkube-node-drgvv                       8/8     Running   0              113m
pod/ovnkube-node-f2pxt                       8/8     Running   0              113m
pod/ovnkube-node-frqsb                       8/8     Running   0              105m
pod/ovnkube-node-lbxkk                       8/8     Running   0              105m
pod/ovnkube-node-tt7bx                       8/8     Running   1 (102m ago)   105m

NAME                                   TYPE        CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)             AGE

> service/ovn-kubernetes-control-plane   ClusterIP   None         <none>        9106/TCP            114m

Reviewer 2: portr here is 9108 remember I pointed you to the CNO PR in our previous iteration? cc @ricky-rav

service/ovn-kubernetes-node            ClusterIP   None         <none>        9103/TCP,9105/TCP   114m

NAME                          DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE SELECTOR                 AGE
daemonset.apps/ovnkube-node   6         6         6       6            6           beta.kubernetes.io/os=linux   114m

NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/ovnkube-control-plane   3/3     3            3           114m

NAME                                               DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/ovnkube-control-plane-65c6f55656   3         3         3       114m

NAME                                     ENDPOINTS                                               AGE

> endpoints/ovn-kubernetes-control-plane   10.0.0.3:9106,10.0.0.4:9106,10.0.0.5:9106               114m

Reviewer 2: not 9106 again

endpoints/ovn-kubernetes-node            10.0.0.3:9105,10.0.0.4:9105,10.0.0.5:9105 + 9 more...   114m

NAME                                 DATA   AGE
configmap/control-plane-status       1      113m
configmap/kube-root-ca.crt           1      114m
configmap/openshift-service-ca.crt   1      114m
configmap/ovn-ca                     1      114m
configmap/ovnkube-config             1      114m
configmap/signer-ca                  1      114m

----
+
There are three `ovnkube-cluster-manager` that run on the control plane nodes, and one daemon set used to deploy the `ovnkube-control-plane` and `ovnkube-node` pods.

> There is one ovnkube-node pod for each node in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: cut this line, sorry for changing this but your daemonset line is not making much sense.

The `ovnkube-config` `ConfigMap` has the {product-title} OVN-Kubernetes configurations.
+
[NOTE]
====

> For Azure, there will be eleven `ovnkube-node` pods in a cluster.

Reviewer 2: ah this also makes no sense. What I meant was there were 10 containers and it was 11 in azure per ovnkube-node pod, now its become 8 containers as seen in your output, which means 9 containers on azure. Please remove this NOTE, I did not mean to ask you to make it part of docs :D I was just commenting.

We just mention there is one ovnkube-node pod per node, then how can there be 11 pods? :) Let's remove the `NOTE`

Author: Ok, I now understand what you were saying previously. Thank you.

====

. List all of the containers in the `ovnkube-node` pods by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods ovnkube-node-bcvts -o jsonpath='{.spec.containers[*].name}' -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes
----
.Expected output
+
[source,terminal]
----
ovn-controller ovn-acl-logging kube-rbac-proxy-node kube-rbac-proxy-ovn-metrics northd nbdb sbdb ovnkube-controller
----

> The `ovnkube-node` pod is made up of several containers. It is responsible for hosting the northbound database (`nbdb` container), the southbound database (`sbdb` container), the north database (`northb` container), and the `ovn-controller` container. The `ovn-controller` container watches for cluster events for pods, egressIP, namespaces, services, endpoints, egress firewall, and network policy, and allocates pod IP from pod subnet to each pod through IP address management (IPAM).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ovnkube-node` pod is made up of several containers. It is responsible for hosting the northbound database (`nbdb` container), the southbound database (`sbdb` container), the north daemon (`northd` container), `ovn-controller` and the `ovnkube-controller`container. The `ovnkube-controller` container watches for API objects like pods, egressIPs, namespaces, services, endpoints, egress firewall, network policy etc. It is also responsible for allocating pod IP from the available subnet pool for that node.
```

Author: I see what you mean now about `ovnkube-controller`.

. List all the containers in the `ovnkube-control-plane` pods by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods ovnkube-control-plane-65c6f55656-6d55h -o jsonpath='{.spec.containers[*].name}' -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes
----
.Expected output
+
[source,terminal]
----
kube-rbac-proxy ovnkube-cluster-manager
----
+

> The `ovnkube-control-plane` pod has a container (`ovn-cluster-manager`) that resides on each {product-title} node. The `ovn-cluster-manager` container allocates pod subnet and join subnet IP to each node. The `kube-rbac-proxy` container monitors metrics for the `ovnkube-cluster-manager` container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ovnkube-control-plane` pod has a container (`ovnkube-cluster-manager`) that resides on each {product-title} node. The `ovnkube-cluster-manager` container allocates pod subnet and join subnet IP to each node in the cluster. The `kube-rbac-proxy` container monitors metrics for the `ovnkube-cluster-manager` container.
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods ovnkube-control-plane-55d6cb89fb-69cjj \
-o jsonpath='{.spec.containers[*].name}' -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes
----
.Expected output
+
[source,terminal]
----
kube-rbac-proxy ovnkube-cluster-manager
----
+
The `ovnkube-master` pod is made up of several containers.
It is responsible for hosting the northbound database (`nbdb` container), the southbound database (`sbdb` container), watching for cluster events for pods, egressIP, namespaces, services, endpoints, egress firewall, and network policy and writing them to the northbound database (`ovnkube-master` pod), as well as managing pod subnet allocation to nodes.
+

> The `ovnkube-node` pod has a container (`ovn-controller`) that resides on each {product-title} node. Each node’s `ovn-controller` connects the OVN northbound to the OVN southbound database to learn about the OVN configuration. The `ovn-controller` connects southbound to `ovs-vswitchd` as an OpenFlow controller, for control over network traffic, and to the local `ovsdb-server` to allow it to monitor and control Open vSwitch configuration.

Author: I tried to re-write this section using your google slides. Is this better?
